---
layout: default
title: Natural Juan - D&D Online
nav_links:
  - title: Join Discord
    anchor: join-discord
  - title: What is the West Marches?
    anchor: west-marches
  - title: The War Room
    anchor: war-room
  - title: Quirks of the Marches
    anchor: quirks-of-the-marches
  - title: Approved Sources
    anchor: approved-sources
  - title: Death in the Marches
    anchor: death-in-the-marches
  - title: T3/T4 Rules
    anchor: t3-t4-rules
---

# 🛠️ Getting Started
## Join us on our Discord channel! {#join-discord}
Our online games are played and coordinated through discord, hop on! Our community is open and friendly and more than willing to help you get started.

- [Natural Juan - D&D Online](https://discord.gg/7c2hzVSBHJ)

## What is the West Marches? {#west-marches}
Where’d the idea come from? What are we doing? 

Greetings adventurers! As the follow up to Natjuan's The Last Dawn convention, we're excited to announce our version of the West Marches Campaign! This campaign picks up after the events of The Last Dawn and covers the resistance's long and brutal fight to retake the continent from the Yuan-ti Empire!
This will be a living world and shared campaign across multiple tables and sessions for the next few months. Every game in Natjuan's West Marches contributes to the overall success of the resistance! Conquer bases, woo allies, score resources and deny all of the above to the empire- each game affects every other after it pushing the needle towards victory or destruction!
HOW WILL IT WORK?

1. Players may organize themselves. When someone is looking for a game, they can post right here in the group with a date and time in mind! Later, as the campaign continues, there will be available objectives as well (especially those opened up by previous games). You may also state which objective you aim to complete.
ex "Hey guys, I'm looking for a scouting party to venture into Cendriane, the fey city, with me on September 15 at 2pm. Any takers?" 
2. Other players can voice their interest in the comments, and when there are enough players, the DMs check their schedules.
3. When the stars align (Players are set for date/time/place and a DM is available), PLAY!
4. The consequences of every session get added to all the DM's notes and the world evolves accordingly. 

That's really all there is to it! Because of the shared nature of our world, there are a few quirks and conceits we have to abide by, but we'll cover that in an upcoming post. For now, let's start cracking! DM Didi will be posting our existing available objectives/story hooks soon and as players explore those, more will open up. 
And so we launch our grand experiment! Happy hunting, adventurers! Give those snakemen hell!
***
We've put our own spin on it, but for more on west marches style campaigns, read about it as written by its original creator: Ben Robbins (http://arsludi.lamemage.com/.../grand-experiments-west.../)—  feeling adventurous.

## The War Room {#war-room}

The adventures you go on depend on what hooks you book, but there are several ways hooks can get generated: 
World events. Most of the time it's generated by the GMs. Events in-world that need to be resolved become the hooks you normally see. 
Results. Sometimes the actions of the players in one mission can have such a powerful effect that it creates problems or opportunities for another mission. In this case the hook says: Result.
Player generated. The most valuable hooks though, are those the players create. Players can submit objectives to the GMs to be made into hooks that they can pursue. These objectives can be either from their backstory (ex. I want to find my sister) or from their ambitions (ex. I want to build a fortress in the forest)..

https://discord.com/channels/694576336467132506/695878559830376530

## Quirks of the Marches: (Homebrew Rules) {#quirks-of-the-marches}
To facilitate a smooth gaming experience, there are a few quirks we'll have to abide in our west marches campaign, especially when it comes to character creation. As we get better at running these games, we'll make improvements and change these rules as we go, but for now here are our quirks:

1. Character creation begins at level 2! Any of the official books released by Wizards of the Coast are fair game in character creation, as well as some homebrews by Matthew Mercer and some MtG: Planeshifts (both pending approval by the DM Corps). We use point buy or standard array for the West Marches!
2. All your T1 (level 1-4) characters share level, xp, and gold, but NOT equipment, items, or boons. When it comes time for your T1 characters to advance to T2 (level 5-11), select which character advances, the rest come back down to level 2. You may also elect for the shared gold pool to advance with the new T2 character OR allow it to stay behind to help fund all your other T1's.
3. For ease of tracking, the XP system is simplified to "0 to 100" whenever you have earned at total of 100xp, you level up and you reset to 0. XP in excess of a level up is carried over. If you have 80xp and receive 30xp as a reward, you begin the next level with 10xp. 
4. As in adventure's league, you may change your character completely while in tier 1, giving you a chance to experiment with different personalities and builds. But when your character graduates to tier 2, you've got to lock him/her in. 
Unlike with T1 characters, T2 characters track level, xp, and gold individually
5. If you have at least TWO T2 characters, your T1 characters may begin at level 3 instead of level 2. The level 2 rule is in place so as not to overwhelm newbies to the hobby. A veteran who has played two characters to T2 is expected to be proficient enough to play at level 3 by default. 🙂 
6. Character death in the marches is not an uncommon thing, unfortunately. When a T1 character dies, his/her gear and items are split up among the surviving party members. Gold remains with the player's T1 gold pool however.
For T2 character death however, assuming the body has been recovered, all gold and items are split up among surviving party members. 
7. Handing off Items (magic or otherwise) can only be done in-game, thus you must adventure with the characters you wish to hand items to.
8. We must always begin and end at a resistance aligned stronghold. If you fail to meet your objectives within the session, you'll have to abandon and retreat for now (thus causing a mission failure). This is to avoid characters from getting locked "in-mission" and unable to play with other tables. 
9. We offer bounties for chroniclers! At the end of every session ANY player may post a session summary (preferably from the perspective of their character, in the form of a journal entry) on the group. The summary might be a complete recounting of the session events or just a narrative snippet highlighting a certain moment! Art of your highlight moments counts too! Any player that does this receives an extra 10xp for the character for whom the chronicle was written.

We're building this airplane in the air, so definitely expect our mechanics to evolve as the campaign does, but for now: Happy hunting!

## Approved Sources {#approved-sources}
A list of approved source material for building your characters!

| Source | Races | Classes | Feats | Spells |
|------|:-----:|:-------:|:-----:|:------:|
| Player's Handbook | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Tasha's Cauldron of Everything | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Eberron: Rising from the Last War | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Explorer's Guide to Wildemount | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Mythic Odysseys of Theros | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Van Richten's Guide to Ravenloft | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Guildmasters' Guide to Ravnica | ✅ | ✅ | ➖ | ✅ |
| Elemental Evil Player Companion | ✅ | ➖ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Sword Coast Adventurer's Guide | ➖ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Xanathar's Guide to Everything | ➖ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Astral Adventurer's Guide | ➖ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Sigil and the Outlands | ➖ | ➖ | ✅ | ✅ |
| The Book of Many Things | ➖ | ➖ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Plane Shift: Zendikar | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ✅ |
| Plane Shift: Innistrad | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ✅ |
| Plane Shift: Kaladesh | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Plane Shift: Amonkhet | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Plane Shift: Ixalan | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Plane Shift: Dominaria | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Volo's Guide to Monsters | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Mordenkainen Presents: Monsters of the Multiverse | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Morte's Planar Parade | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| One Grung Above | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Tortle Package | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Locathah Rising | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Dungeon Master's Guide | ➖ | ➖ | ✅ | ➖ |
| Critical Role Gunslinger | ➖ | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Bloodhunter (Ghostslayer, Lycan, Mutant) | ➖ | ✅ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Monster Manual | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Boo's Astral Menagerie | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Adventure Atlas: The Mortuary | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Unearthed Arcana | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| The Disembodied of the Unshackled | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ | ➖ |
| Bloodhunter (Profane Soul) | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 |
| Fizban's Treasury of Dragons | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 |
| Strixhaven: A Curriculum of Chaos | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 |
| Acquisitions Incorporated | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 |
| Bigby Presents: Glory of the Giants | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 | 🔒 |

## Death in the Marches {#death-in-the-marches}

To preserve the narrative tension that death provides, the West Marches has implemented a version of Matt Mercer's Fading Spirit rules! Read them here and take care out there. You're no use to The Resistance dead!

The beautiful but emotionless porcelain mask of the Raven Queen peers down upon the mortals of the prime from her hold, deep in the Shadowfell. Struggling and straining, fighting and fleeing their ultimate fates. She plucks her fingers across the loom of fate. The mortals’ individual threads of destiny all woven together shape a greater design. Some threads are shorter, others longer. But all will eventually wind their way back to her.

Greetings adventurers! We have contended with death for a while now, here in the Marches, but as the marches and its adventurers have grown, so has our ability to manipulate cosmic forces; including life and death itself! Revivify, Resurrection, and Raise Dead are now available to a decent number of our adventurers for overturning death. Because our campaign is both player driven and story heavy we believe strongly in making the sacrifice of death both weighty and meaningful. The decision to lay one’s life on the line, should not be trivial.
As such, we have taken a page out of Matt Mercers book and instituted the Fading Spirit homebrew rules for death, with a few tweaks of our own. Check em out below!

The Raven Queen awaits us all
THE FADING SPIRIT – ALTERNATIVE RESURRECTION RULES
If a character is dead, and a resurrection is attempted by a spell or spell effect with longer than a 1 action casting time, a Resurrection Challenge is initiated. Up to 3 members of the adventuring party can offer to contribute to the ritual via a Contribution Skill Check. The DM asks them each to make a skill check based on their form of contribution, with the DC of the check adjusting to how helpful/impactful the DM feels the contribution would be.
For example, praying to the god of the devout, fallen character may require an Intelligence (Religion) check at an easy to medium difficulty, where loudly demanding the soul of the fallen to return from the aether may require a Charisma (Intimidation) check at a very hard or nearly impossible difficulty. Advantage and disadvantage can apply here based on how perfect, or off base, the contribution offered is.
After all contributions are completed, the DM then rolls a single, final Resurrection success check with no modifier. The base DC for the final resurrection check is 10, increasing by 2 for each previous successful resurrection the character has undergone (signifying the slow erosion of the soul’s connection to this world). For each successful contribution skill check, this DC is decreased by 3, whereas each failed contribution skill check increases the DC by 1.
Upon a successful resurrection check, the player’s soul (should it be willing) will be returned to the body, and the ritual succeeded. On a failed check, the soul does not return and the character is lost for good.
If a spell with a casting time of 1 action is used to attempt to restore life (via the Revivify spell or similar effects), no contribution skill checks are allowed. The character casting the spell makes a Rapid Resurrection check, rolling a d20 and adding their spellcasting ability modifier. The DC is 10, increasing by 2 for each previous successful resurrection the character has undergone. On a failure, the character’s soul is not lost, but the resurrection fails and increases any future Resurrection checks’ DC by 1. No further attempts can be made to restore this character to life until a resurrection spell with a casting time higher than 1 action is attempted.
HEALER NOT ON SITE: RESURRECTION QUESTS
If there is no character present at the table capable of resurrecting the dead player character in game, the party may attempt to petition a capable individual in the resistance (a player character in the resistance willing and able to cast the required spell). After they have obtained permission from the resurrecting character's player, willing resistance adventurers may embark on a resurrection quest to gain the favor of the god or patron enabling the resurrection. At the conclusion of a successful resurrection quest the DC (as determined above) is reduced by 9 and the DM rolls the final Resurrection Success check as above. Upon a failed quest, the DC is increased by 3 for this check.
Note that all requirements of the resurrection spell must still be met (gold cost components, preserved body, etc). 
AT GREAT PERSONAL COST
For every successful resurrection a character undergoes the cost of the components rises, as it requires more and more power to bring someone back from beyond the veil. For every successful resurrection, the components of the spell with a gold cost increases in required value by 25% of base. As a for example for Raise Dead:
1st Casting of Raise Dead: A diamond worth 500gp
2nd Casting of Raise Dead: A diamond worth 625gp
3rd Casting of Raise Dead: A diamond worth 750gp
We recommend preparing the difference from base cost on your person, so as to aid your healer in resurrecting you.
RESURRECTION SICKNESS
Returning from the realm of the dead is a great ordeal. It is traumatizing and taxing on both body and soul. Any resurrection short of by Wish or True Resurrection applies Resurrection Sickness on the character. They take a -3 penalty to all attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks for the entirety of their first session after resurrection. In their second session, the resurrection sickness has abated somewhat with only a -1 penalty. By their third session, they have returned to normal and are free of Resurrection Sickness.
With these new mechanics, we hope that the continued unfolding drama of the marches reaches new heights! Adventurers of every tier really will lay it all on the line to defeat the empire! Be careful out there. The Raven Queen is watching.
Credit to Matt Mercer and Critical Role for inspiring us! See the original rules in the link below!
https://geekandsundry.com/use-critical-roles-resurrection-rules-in-your-own-campaign/

## T3/T4 Gold, XP, and Downtime Rules {#t3-t4-rules}

### Experience and Gold Rewards

New XP Threshold: 30xp for a mission success and 15xp for a mission failure remains true. However, the characters in T3 will level up once they hit 150xp and T4 at 200xp. Spill over XP from a level up still applies as normal.
Gold: Depending on their level of success, PC’s at T3 will earn Gold rewards between 500-800gp per mission while PC’s at T4 earn between 1500gp to 2500gp. While there will be ample opportunity to earn a modest amount of gold on personal hooks,  Resistance-related hooks will guarantee a sizable payoff.

### Downtime Rewards

No one said war was easy. The missions being undertaken grow harder and more taxing with each moment as the conflict escalates! But even in the midst of this hell, The Resistance knows that adventurers who serve a full tour of duty are entitled to a well-earned rest.
Adventurers who are able to gain downtime rest may choose to take the time to improve themselves, making them even more indispensable to the Resistance. Or, they may choose to follow leads for personal gain, whether it’s chasing down a magical item, or finding information pertinent to their own journeys.
Mechanics:
When a player character completes FOUR successful T3/T4 Missions for the Resistance, they gain ONE downtime token, which may be used for various boons and rewards
Tokens are NOT shareable between characters, as they symbolize your character’s rest from a long foray into enemy territory
Information earned on magic items will open hooks to acquire those items
Mission Information may be used on any session (limit of 1 use per session) and can be used to learn one (1) thing about the said mission that you otherwise would not have known.
All armor proficiencies maintain their prerequisites (e.g. you cannot gain a proficiency in Medium Armor without first having proficiency in Light Armor)
All rewards can only be redeemed at the Table with the DM, and the players are responsible for tracking their games and presenting it to the DMs.
Downtime Token Reward Table:

| Benefit | Downtime Tokens |
|--------|:---------------:|
| Shield Proficiency | 7 |
| Learn location of a legendary magic item | 5 |
| Gain 1 Skill Proficiency | 5 |
| Gain proficiency in 1 two-handed martial weapon | 5 |
| Heavy Armor Proficiency | 5 |
| Medium Armor Proficiency | 5 |
| Light Armor Proficiency | 5 |
| Learn the location of a very rare magic item | 4 |
| Gain proficiency in 1 set of tools | 4 |
| Gain proficiency in 1 one-handed martial weapon | 4 |
| Gain proficiency in 1 simple weapon | 3 |
| Learn to speak 1 language | 3 |
| Gain proficiency in 1 ranged martial weapon | 3 |
| Learn the location of a rare magic item | 2 |
| Gain proficiency in 1 artisan tool | 2 |
| Gain proficiency in 1 vehicle | 2 |
| Learn the location of an uncommon magic item | 1 |
| Gain proficiency in 1 musical instrument or gaming set | 1 |
| Learn a piece of information about your next mission | 1 |